README.md, before:

# UniPA BCI Framework
[![License: GPLv3][GPLimg]][GPLurl]

Copyright (C) 2017 Salvatore La Bua [slabua(at)gmail.com](mailto:slabua@gmail.com)  
RoboticsLab, Department of Industrial and Digital Innovation (DIID),  
Universita' degli Studi di Palermo, V. delle Scienze, Palermo, Italy.  
[http://www.slblabs.com/projects/unipa-bci-framework][U01]  
[https://github.com/slabua/UniPABCIFramework][U02]  

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->
## Table of Contents

- [Introduction to the Project](#introduction-to-the-project)
- [Some information about UniPA BCI Framework](#some-information-about-unipa-bci-framework)
- [Design and Implementation of Modules for the Extraction of Biometric Parameters in an Augmented BCI Framework](#design-and-implementation-of-modules-for-the-extraction-of-biometric-parameters-in-an-augmented-bci-framework)
  - [Thesis Abstract](#thesis-abstract)
- [Resources](#resources)
- [LICENSE](#license)
- [Screenshots](#screenshots)
  - [BCI Framework main interface](#bci-framework-main-interface)
  - [Baseline Acquisition interface](#baseline-acquisition-interface)
  - [Game Session controller](#game-session-controller)
  - [Alphanumeric Spelling interface](#alphanumeric-spelling-interface)
  - [Symbolic Spelling interface](#symbolic-spelling-interface)
  - [Credits](#credits)
  - [License](#license)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
## Introduction to the Project

- The master's degree thesis is available at:
  http://www.slblabs.com/projects/unipa-bci-framework

## Some information about UniPA BCI Framework

- I have been developing the UniPA BCI Framework as a final project for my
  master's degree programme at University of Palermo, Italy.
- The UniPA BCI Framework is a framework based on the P300 paradigm and allows
  a user to select individual actions to be performed by a robot or, in the
  more classic configuration, to spell a sequence of symbols.
- In particular, the framework takes advantage of additional developed modules,
  which perform the acquisition of eye gaze coordinates and biometric signals.
  It is therefore possible to consider the presented framework as a kind of
  augmented BCI system.
- The use of such modules allows to achieve a combined response which does not
  only take in account the response of a traditional BCI system based on the
  P300 paradigm, but it also considers useful information, such as the user
  visual focus and her level of engagement with the system, providing a more
  robust and effective global response.

## Design and Implementation of Modules for the Extraction of Biometric Parameters in an Augmented BCI Framework

### Thesis Abstract

The interaction between human beings and robotic agents, and the interest
towards such topics, have been exponentially growing in the recent years. The
purpose of this thesis project is to identify a relation between the behaviours
of a humanoid robot placed in a social context, and the emotional responses of
a subject interacting with it. In particular, through the use of Brain-Computer
Interface (BCI) and gaze tracking technologies, it has been investigated on the
relation between the trust towards a robotic agent and the effects it has on
the brain signals. In order to evaluate this relation, the framework makes use
of the acquired brain signals to extract biometric features, such as attention,
stress, and mental workload, along with the visual focus. In order to
investigate towards this direction, an interactive game session has been set up
for the human-robot interaction. In particular, an instance of the well-known
Rock-Paper-Scissors game has been used. The experimental results have been
shown a correlation between the behaviours of a robotic agent and the effect
of trust on the brain signals of the human user. In particular, the emotional
response varies depending the type of behaviours expressed by the robotic
agent.

## Resources

1. [Master's Degree Thesis][R01]
2. [Presentation][R02]
3. [ResearchGate Thesis publication][R03]
4. [ResearchGate Presentation publication][R04]
5. [ResearchGate UniPA BCI Framework project][R05]

## LICENSE

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

Note:
The graphic icons used in the Main interface, Baseline Acquisition interface, 
and the Game Session controller are provided through [The Noun Project](https://thenounproject.com/),
by (in alphabetical order) [comkro](https://thenounproject.com/comkro/), [daouna](https://thenounproject.com/daouna/), [petervandriel](https://thenounproject.com/petervandriel/) and [rose-alice-design](https://thenounproject.com/rose-alice-design/).

## Screenshots

### BCI Framework main interface
![Main][S01]

### Baseline Acquisition interface
![Baseline Acquisition][S02]

### Game Session controller
![Game Session][S03]

### Alphanumeric Spelling interface
![Alphanumeric Speller][S04]

### Symbolic Spelling interface
![Symbolic Speller][S05]

### Credits
![Credits][S06]

### License
![License][S07]

[GPLimg]: https://img.shields.io/badge/License-GPLv3-blue.svg
[GPLurl]: https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0
[U01]: http://www.slblabs.com/projects/unipa-bci-framework
[U02]: https://github.com/slabua/UniPABCIFramework
[R01]: https://goo.gl/buaKOv
[R02]: https://goo.gl/ZGJKXZ
[R03]: https://goo.gl/M0ju0s
[R04]: https://goo.gl/EcMujd
[R05]: https://goo.gl/lrbjgy
[S01]: https://goo.gl/W9aJWS
[S02]: https://goo.gl/WdxwLW
[S03]: https://goo.gl/XXEwuC
[S04]: https://goo.gl/7heD6Y
[S05]: https://goo.gl/vYPKYe
[S06]: https://goo.gl/wK7qyE
[S07]: https://goo.gl/CFVjKB

Commit message:

Add How to cite section in README.md

README.md, after:

# UniPA BCI Framework
[![License: GPLv3][GPLimg]][GPLurl]

Copyright (C) 2017 Salvatore La Bua [slabua(at)gmail.com](mailto:slabua@gmail.com)  
RoboticsLab, Department of Industrial and Digital Innovation (DIID),  
Universita' degli Studi di Palermo, V. delle Scienze, Palermo, Italy.  
[http://www.slblabs.com/projects/unipa-bci-framework][U01]  
[https://github.com/slabua/UniPABCIFramework][U02]  

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->
## Table of Contents

- [Introduction to the Project](#introduction-to-the-project)
- [Some information about UniPA BCI Framework](#some-information-about-unipa-bci-framework)
- [How to cite](#how-to-cite)
- [Design and Implementation of Modules for the Extraction of Biometric Parameters in an Augmented BCI Framework](#design-and-implementation-of-modules-for-the-extraction-of-biometric-parameters-in-an-augmented-bci-framework)
  - [Thesis Abstract](#thesis-abstract)
- [Resources](#resources)
- [LICENSE](#license)
- [Screenshots](#screenshots)
  - [BCI Framework main interface](#bci-framework-main-interface)
  - [Baseline Acquisition interface](#baseline-acquisition-interface)
  - [Game Session controller](#game-session-controller)
  - [Alphanumeric Spelling interface](#alphanumeric-spelling-interface)
  - [Symbolic Spelling interface](#symbolic-spelling-interface)
  - [Credits](#credits)
  - [License](#license)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
## Introduction to the Project

- The master's degree thesis is available at:
  http://www.slblabs.com/projects/unipa-bci-framework

## Some information about UniPA BCI Framework

- I have been developing the UniPA BCI Framework as a final project for my
  master's degree programme at University of Palermo, Italy.
- The UniPA BCI Framework is a framework based on the P300 paradigm and allows
  a user to select individual actions to be performed by a robot or, in the
  more classic configuration, to spell a sequence of symbols.
- In particular, the framework takes advantage of additional developed modules,
  which perform the acquisition of eye gaze coordinates and biometric signals.
  It is therefore possible to consider the presented framework as a kind of
  augmented BCI system.
- The use of such modules allows to achieve a combined response which does not
  only take in account the response of a traditional BCI system based on the
  P300 paradigm, but it also considers useful information, such as the user
  visual focus and her level of engagement with the system, providing a more
  robust and effective global response.

## How to cite

Thesis:
```
S. La Bua, “Design and Implementation of Modules for the Extraction of Biometric Parameters in an Augmented BCI Framework,” Master degree dissertation submitted to Universita' degli Studi di Palermo, Palermo, Italy, 2017.
```
GitHub repository:
```
S. La Bua, UniPA BCI Framework, (2017), GitHub repository, https://github.com/slabua/UniPABCIFramework
```

## Design and Implementation of Modules for the Extraction of Biometric Parameters in an Augmented BCI Framework

### Thesis Abstract

The interaction between human beings and robotic agents, and the interest
towards such topics, have been exponentially growing in the recent years. The
purpose of this thesis project is to identify a relation between the behaviours
of a humanoid robot placed in a social context, and the emotional responses of
a subject interacting with it. In particular, through the use of Brain-Computer
Interface (BCI) and gaze tracking technologies, it has been investigated on the
relation between the trust towards a robotic agent and the effects it has on
the brain signals. In order to evaluate this relation, the framework makes use
of the acquired brain signals to extract biometric features, such as attention,
stress, and mental workload, along with the visual focus. In order to
investigate towards this direction, an interactive game session has been set up
for the human-robot interaction. In particular, an instance of the well-known
Rock-Paper-Scissors game has been used. The experimental results have been
shown a correlation between the behaviours of a robotic agent and the effect
of trust on the brain signals of the human user. In particular, the emotional
response varies depending the type of behaviours expressed by the robotic
agent.

## Resources

1. [Master's Degree Thesis][R01]
2. [Presentation][R02]
3. [ResearchGate Thesis publication][R03]
4. [ResearchGate Presentation publication][R04]
5. [ResearchGate UniPA BCI Framework project][R05]

## LICENSE

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

Note:
The graphic icons used in the Main interface, Baseline Acquisition interface, 
and the Game Session controller are provided through [The Noun Project](https://thenounproject.com/),
by (in alphabetical order) [comkro](https://thenounproject.com/comkro/), [daouna](https://thenounproject.com/daouna/), [petervandriel](https://thenounproject.com/petervandriel/) and [rose-alice-design](https://thenounproject.com/rose-alice-design/).

## Screenshots

### BCI Framework main interface
![Main][S01]

### Baseline Acquisition interface
![Baseline Acquisition][S02]

### Game Session controller
![Game Session][S03]

### Alphanumeric Spelling interface
![Alphanumeric Speller][S04]

### Symbolic Spelling interface
![Symbolic Speller][S05]

### Credits
![Credits][S06]

### License
![License][S07]

[GPLimg]: https://img.shields.io/badge/License-GPLv3-blue.svg
[GPLurl]: https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0
[U01]: http://www.slblabs.com/projects/unipa-bci-framework
[U02]: https://github.com/slabua/UniPABCIFramework
[R01]: https://goo.gl/buaKOv
[R02]: https://goo.gl/ZGJKXZ
[R03]: https://goo.gl/M0ju0s
[R04]: https://goo.gl/EcMujd
[R05]: https://goo.gl/lrbjgy
[S01]: https://goo.gl/W9aJWS
[S02]: https://goo.gl/WdxwLW
[S03]: https://goo.gl/XXEwuC
[S04]: https://goo.gl/7heD6Y
[S05]: https://goo.gl/vYPKYe
[S06]: https://goo.gl/wK7qyE
[S07]: https://goo.gl/CFVjKB
